# DS_Final_Project_MAZ
Project Proposal: 
Nowadays, several roles/categories are involved in the data-related job market. For example, a few include 'Data Engineer,' 'Data Analyst,' 'Data Architect,' etc. Since there are many job titles in the data field, I want to predict which job roles/categories will most likely be in need and the most reliable in the future. The owner of the dataset, Hummaam Qaasim, calls the dataset that I will be using "Jobs and Salaries in Data Science", which I found on Kaggle. In total, the dataset has 12 columns and 9,356 rows. As for modeling, I plan on using three potential predictive models: the nearest neighbor, random forest, and gradient boosting algorithms. In addition, as a baseline for evaluating predictive models, I am interested in using linear/logistic regression to compare the accuracy scores with the other three predictive models I will use with my data. As for tools, I plan on using the Python programming language. In addition, as for libraries in Python, I plan to use numpy, pandas, matplotlib, seaborn, and sklearn. Lastly, as for visualization tools, I plan on using Python and Tableau. I firmly believe these steps can push me in the right direction to clean the data, perform explanatory data analysis (EDA), and ultimately produce the most accurate predictive model. All in all, technology and the data industry are constantly evolving rapidly. Should data science as a career be a cause for worry?

Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA):
In summary, after exploring and testing many different types of EDA, it can demonstrate how salary depends on different factors and can fluctuate in the data industry. In addition, the data set only focuses on a few interval data types like work year and salary. The rest of the columns are all nominal data, which means they must change from categorical to numerical data to make future salary predictions work and be as accurate as possible. The only way to make this change is by using the one-hot encoding, as you demonstrated in class, by transferring the categorical variables into a numerical layout before splitting and testing with the ML algorithms. Finally, I enjoyed exploring and learning more about different variables affecting salaries in the data field. 

Preliminary Predictive Analytics Model:
In this portion of my semester-long project, I developed a preliminary predictive analytics model by implementing a linear regression model as a baseline and a K-Nearest Neighbor model. Although the accuracy score is not what I hoped for, I believe it can improve significantly. I would want to work and experiment more by preparing and cleaning the data differently. Any feedback or suggestions would be greatly appreciated!
Source used: https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2018/08/k-nearest-neighbor-introduction-regression-python/#commentModule
